Dark portal, sealed
off since ancient times...
I command you to open!
I don't believe it...
[astonished chuckle]
Get a load of this, you guys!
The gate just opened
like it's welcoming us.
You were right, Master.
That spell came in handy.
Now, then... Everybody?
Let's get a move on.
Both: Okay!
What is it, Dai?
You all right?
Well, master...
I'm grateful.
Right now...
I want you to know that from
the bottom of my heart...
I'm happy you came
back to help us.
We couldn't do
this without you.
Dai: I tried to get through
a gate like this with my dad,
and we barely had enough
strength to breach it together.
Now that I'm the
only Dragon Knight...
Honestly?
I was wracking my brain on how
we could get through this one.
And... then you showed us that
there was another
way to get it open...
Something even stronger
than brute strength.
That's right.
Anyway, if you ask me,
there's no doubt about it.
King Vearn thinks
that might makes right,
but he's wrong.
Power isn't everything.
The only reason I know that...
Is because you keep
proving him wrong.
Now you understand.
Having no power at
all can be a problem,
however, there's more
than just one kind.
Knowledge, perseverance,
and a good heart are
all forms of power as well.
Now... Come along.
Our true battle still lies
ahead. No time to waste.
Dai: Yes, sir!
No! They're all
getting inside.
Let's squash this
puny bug and get 'em.
Not a chance.
Hyunckel: Now that the real
father figures returned,
I can stop playing
the older brother.
Instead, I can be
the warrior again...
And none of you
will go after them.
Sounds more like you're playing
the babbling idiot to me.
It's curtain call, boys!
Hyunckel: Don't you get it?
With Avan looking
after the others,
I'm free to cut
loose and take you on
without worrying
about the consequences.
Give me all you've got.
I have plenty
of energy to spare.
Again?
That's his second one today.
Grand Cross!
Monster: Impossible...
Bring it on. I'll show
you what's possible.
Maam: Oh, wow...
Leona: No kidding.
It's beautiful.
I thought the
king of darkness
would have a way
gloomier castle than this.
You know, all dungeons
and cobwebs and whatnot...
this place is even classier
than King Bengarna's palace.
Popp: It's more
luxurious than any palace.
Avan: Perhaps, but it
serves an ugly purpose.
Avan: There are
only two reasons
to design a palace in
such a linear fashion.
The first is to display
its beauty in a way that
captures the attention
of any visitor...
The second is tactical.
If anyone tries to
invade such a stronghold,
their forces will be forced
into a single column
that can be ambushed
from either side.
Maam: It just keeps getting
more breathtaking...
Leona: But it looks
like Master Avan is right.
It's just one long pathway.
Be ready for that ambush.
Best to keep moving.
Hyunckel will
stop any pursuers.
Our issue is what lies ahead.
We'll have to keep
our eyes peeled.
Enemies will be expecting us.
Time out, gang.
What's the matter?
I just feel like
I'm ready to drop.
Let me catch my
breath for a second.
I can't keep up with you.
I'm already out
of Magic Power,
and this marathon is
sucking up my stamina
before I can really recover.
Dai: Come to think of it,
Popp's been out
of steam for a while.
We all have. I mean,
aren't you exhausted too?
Nah, I feel pretty great.
Running all this way gave
a real boost to my energy.
Leona [thought]: Yeah...
I'm pretty sure it's supposed
to work the other way around.
Popp: Please, I need
a Healing Spell.
Don't let me
suffer like this...
I'm begging you, a small one.
I can't take it anymore.
Well since you
put it that way,
how about I end your
suffering with this?
Maybe we could
do with a break.
We can't fight on empty.
Okay! That settles it.
I believe that a
snack break is in order.
Popp: In the middle
of the enemy's castle?
Uh-huh!
King Maximum: Sire,
there was word that
my services may be required?
Vearn: Maximum.
King Maximum: Mystvearn
and the others have proven
that things cannot
be left in their hands.
Perhaps it is time you
called upon Vearn Palace's
most formidable guardian
to handle these vermin.
Do as you please.
King Maximum: Very well.
Avan: Take heart,
my weary travelers...
We shall slay this
vicious beast of hunger.
My incredible picnic
set will save the day...
Who brings a picnic
basket to a battle?
Honestly, Master.
What is going on with you?
Popp: Like, sure,
I could eat...
But is this really
the right time
to be sitting down for a meal?
You know, Hyunckel's
still out there,
all alone, fighting for us.
I may be in bad shape,
but I'm not about to rest
while I know that's going on.
Let's move!
Popp! What the...
M-Master, what did
you do to him?
Weird...
Whatever that was,
it completely restored
my Magic Power.
Well, of course.
That feather is not the same
as the one I used before.
Avan: I designed them myself.
The Gold Feathers
are used for combat...
These items contain
Shining Stone,
one of the elements
of Mysticite.
When they're used in battle,
they're able to amplify
the impact of magical attacks.
Whereas, the
Silver Feathers -
like the one I just used on Popp
- are designed for healing.
The gems inside of these
are made from Holy Stone,
which is able to
store Magic Power.
This allows the user
to replenish themselves
when they're low on energy.
The Magic Bullet Gun I gave
Maam uses the same gem.
Really? I had no idea.
Then, doesn't that mean that
a stone possessing
both properties is...
Indeed. Inside
your Insignias...
Is a hybrid of both materials.
Avan: But even after the
Mysticite has been created,
it takes time for
the alchemy to develop...
So I was only able to create
these two types of Feathers
while I was in
the Cave of Trials.
You should be as
good as new, Popp.
Curious...
Well, well.
I must say I'm
quite impressed.
Your abilities have
grown considerably.
Huh?
Yes, it's truly remarkable.
You see, this Feather
contained enough Magic Power
to revive up to three Mages
of average strength...
and you've emptied
the entire thing.
Popp [thought]: No way...
When did I get that strong?
I've never seen
anything like this.
With such strength,
you might need some more.
How about another
jab for good measure?
Just hold still.
No, thank you!
I'm all better now.
Oh, but I must I insist!
Healing up and readying
oneself before a battle
is an important duty for any
member of the Hero's party.
It may hurt a little,
but I guarantee it's nothing
next to the sting of defeat.
To refuse would be an
insult to all your friends
down there on
the battlefield.
When you put it
that way... I'll take it.
Avan: Maam; do the honors.
You can use
the rest of those
to restore everyone
else's Magic Power...
Then, make sure to top up their
stamina with Healing Magic.
Yes, sir.
B-But what about you?
I'll go on ahead for a bit.
Somebody has
to scout the area.
There are many
more traps ahead.
We must be careful not
to fall into them...
But if I find any,
I'm prepared to
disable them myself.
Avan: While I'm at it,
I'll also draw up a map
of the castle's layout.
Dai: Isn't it
dangerous to go alone?
Yes. It is. Very good point.
Therefore, Princess Leona...
Uh, y-yes?
Would you be so kind as
to accompany me on my quest?
M-Me? Are you sure?
I'd be happy to, sir.
Good luck getting
these two together, Maam.
Leona...
Avan: Don't worry.
We're gonna be
back in no time.
Stay put even after
you've finished healing,
otherwise we might lose you.
When we return, you can tell me
what an excellent cook I am.
[laughing]
Lets go.
Leona: [screaming]
So... now what?
I guess we heal up.
I wonder what kinda
snacks he packed us.
Dai: Wow. He's still
the same old Master.
Is he?
With that new Secret Way,
it sorta seems like he could
take on King Vearn himself.
Well, even though
he's here, Popp...
You can't let
your guard down.
We should assume
that we'll be fighting
without him like we planned.
Who's dropping their guard?
Dai: Maam's right.
We should follow
his orders and
replenish as much of
our strength as we can.
Doesn't matter
who wins the fight,
we all have to
be ready for it.
I dunno about you,
but I'm not letting Master risk
his life again for nothing.
All right, then.
Let's get this over with.
Can we at least avoid
feathers to the head this time?
[laughing]
Maybe we could do it
the old-fashioned way?
Gomechan: [amused chirping]
Leona: I'm not sure
I'm following...
what exactly do
you need me for?
Because if it's magic,
I should tell you...
the only Purifying Spell I
know how to cast is Kaglimmer.
There wasn't enough time to
learn any others
while I was down there.
It's all right,
Your Highness. I know.
And as it turns out,
I brought you along
for a different reason.
I want you to have these.
I'm sure they'll
serve you well.
You're really
giving these to me?
But why? They belong to you.
I believe that when
the time comes,
you're going to be
the one to take my place.
Wait, what?
Zaboera: Forgive me,
Lord Mystvearn.
They're... Much stronger
than I thought!
Your Underworld monsters weren't
as tough as they looked...
A whole horde of chumps.
Now you two are all we've
got left to deal with.
You misjudged us.
These creatures were strong,
but in the end they were
just a pack of wild beasts.
They don't know how to
coordinate or work together.
It would appear as if
the humans here today...
Are quite different.
With a more purposeful nature.
Zaboera [thought]:
How charming...
In that case, I'll have
to coax Mystvearn
into fighting all of these
wretched humans at once.
Then, when
they're distracted,
I'll have an
opportunity to escape.
What other choice do I have?
Zaboera: Lord Mystvearn,
old friend...
I apologize.
I had intended to destroy
them for you as a gift...
But alas, my
devices have proven
quite useless
against these humans.
Still, they should be no match
for your astonishing might.
In the meantime,
I shall return to the palace
to ensure our king's safety.
Personally, I'm quite confident
you'll crush these
fools in no time!
Mystvearn: [laughing]
Look at you go.
You're certainly grasping at
straws now, aren't you, Zaboera?
Mystvearn: King Vearn would
fare better without your help.
If this was the best you could
manage against an average army,
how will you take on the Hero?
It's... complicated.
Nova [thought]:
Why are they arguing?
Mystvearn: They say when
you reap what you sow,
it always comes
at your lowest...
Thinking you can play me
like one of your pawns
is as low as it gets.
I suppose this was inevitable.
Manipulating others to your
benefit has got you this far.
It was only a matter of time
before someone fought back.
Your path ends here.
I am under no obligation
to offer my help
to the likes of you.
I shall return to the palace
and guard the Dark King myself.
Then what am I to do?!
Mystvearn: Why don't you try
doing something
yourself for once?!
Mystvearn: Besides,
we both know that if you
return to the Palace
without any results,
you'll never see
another sunrise.
I suggest you
clean up this mess.
At the very least, show some
effort with these humans,
and if you're
feeling ambitious,
disrupt their Magic
Circle of Light.
Zaboera: But...
How would I?
Mystvearn: Use your head.
Perhaps such efforts
from a worm like you
will inspire
King Vearn's pity.
Lord Mystvearn, or,
should I say... Mystvearn?
How could you say
such awful things?
I'm a fellow veteran
of the Legion Commanders.
Think of how many battles we've
fought alongside each other.
We're comrades.
How can you abandon me
like this, you traitor!
Mystvearn: "Comrades..."
Are you actually resorting to
the platitudes of
the servants of justice?
I was wrong.
This is your lowest.
Mystvearn: But either
way, Zaboera...
If we're the close friends
that you claim us to be...
then you should
know perfectly well
what I will say in
situation such as this.
The same answer it always is;
"The Dark King's w-words..."
Mystvearn: "... take
precedence above all else."
Exactly. So why bother asking?
[defeated sigh]
Crocodine [thought]:
It was inevitable.
Zaboera spent
decades casting aside
whole armies of warriors just
to fuel his own ambitions.
And now, for the first time,
it's him who's been cast aside.
Mystvearn: This is
where we say goodbye.
Lon Beruk: Wait a
minute, Mystvearn.
You're not about to run
off like a coward, are you?
Because you and I were
in the middle of something.
Mystvearn: [amused chuckle]
You can believe
whatever you like.
There aren't many
in this world
able to fight me
on equal ground...
All the same, you may count
yourself as one of them.
I'm a little relieved,
to tell the truth.
Mystvearn: You are
an impressive one.
I imagine if you had fought
me using your full strength,
our battle wouldn't have
lasted nearly as long.
Of course, I'm sure
you're aware,
the same could be
said for me.
[chuckle]
Lon Beruk [thought]:
Mystvearn...
Mystvearn: Farewell
for now, Lon Beruk...
and you humans with
your unexpected mettle.
You have my respect.
I admire anyone with
a powerful body or mind,
be they ally or enemy.
I give you my word,
your achievements on this day
will not soon be forgotten.
He may have left
us with a compliment,
but it seems there's one ally
here that he never respected.
Zaboera, this is
the end for you.
You're all out of options.
Crocodine: Surrender now.
If you retreat to Vearn
Palace, you'll be punished.
That said, I know you're
not quite stupid enough
to think you can take
on the rest of us alone.
Zaobera: "Stupid"...
Stupid, am I?
[sinister chuckle]
[cackling]
Oh, what a joke...
What a sickening joke!
To have the poster boy
for idiots everywhere
suggesting that...
I'm the stupid one -
is the most ridiculous
thing I've ever heard!
[cackling]
What'd you say?
You all think you're
so magnanimous, don't you?
Zaboera: It's true
that I wasn't able to
use Mystvearn
as I'd hoped...
But that's a minor
setback at best.
Unlike you, I always
prepare a backup plan
when I enter a battle.
I still have plenty
of ways to fight without
needing to get my hands dirty.
There are hundreds of monsters
here who will protect me
and make quick work of
your insufferable army.
Hundreds? Are you
out of your mind?
There's nobody
left to defend you.
Your blasted monsters
are all half-dead.
Perhaps, but...
I'm not finished with them.
No, no. We certainly
can't have that.
It's a spell.
Watch your backs!
For what I'm planning,
that won't do at all!
You fiend!
Why would you slaughter your
remaining servants like this?
Who will help you now?
[snickering]
I wouldn't expect you to
put it together, Crocodine.
If I want this to work,
I need them as corpses.
But - why? What
good's a corpse?
If they're still alive,
they can't be part
of my final weapon.
Weapon?!
Superior Being Synthesis!
Zaboera: I've spent many
a long night contemplating
what my ultimate
power-up could be...
Superior Beings
are incredibly strong,
but their life energy
depletes far too quickly.
Zaboera: I gladly
transformed the others,
but I'd never perform
the procedure on myself.
Zaboera: My wish is to do away
with all the gallant sacrifice,
and remain
completely unharmed
while I lay waste to my enemies
and conquer the battlefield.
A "free ride,"
as they say...
The mindset of an
absolute scoundrel.
Zaboera: And for
all my thinking...
this is the result!
Zaboera: Behold, the
Superior Being Mark Two...
I suppose I should call it
a Superior Being Zombie!
Oh, great. A zombie?
Oh, please. Using size
to your advantage?
That's the best you can do?
You'll have to come up with
a better play than this,
you spineless coward!
Take that!
Thank you for offering such
a mighty blow, Lon Beruk.
You've confirmed
my hypothesis.
Now I have no doubt
that I've created
an unbeatable Superior entity!
It can't be. Lon overwhelmed
Mystvearn himself.
Yet against this, his blade...
It doesn't work.
Zaboera: [menacing chuckle]
Narrator: Zaboera's
transformation into
a Superior Being Zombie
leaves our heroes
scrambling to
find a weakness...
But with an
indestructible hide
that not even Lon Beruk's
weapons can pierce,
soon any hope begins to waver.
Just when it seems
that the tables have turned
in the battle
of Loroi Valley,
Nova brushes off the
protests of his allies
and squares off against
the Mystic Bishop.
Learn who claims the
victory - next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Other Hero."